Utilizing Kaymer feature frequency prior profiles as the preferred approach for taxonomic classification and species identification of nucleic acid sequences

Currently taxonomic classification is done by physical features of organisms. this requires individuals to labor over macro and microscopic features of organisms and then attempts to appropriately cluster groups of organisms into an identifiable species that is similar to but distinct from other species in the same genus and so on and so forth u up the taxonomic tree until we get to the root of tree of life. Given that we've been attempting to do this for hundreds of years ever since Linneus started classifying species and we are still nowhere close to having every species named or identified and also that there're fewer and fewer biologists and natural history researchers who are interested in taking up because

Even for the species where a great deal of effort and care and collaborative diligence has been given to trying to Group and describe species it has become clear that through DNA sequencing what we have been able to distinguish about physical macroscopic organism itself may not be the most reliable way to Group identify organisms cause the DNA makeup tells a different story about their relationship to one another. This is particularly true among mushrooms and fungi where the rate of change and taxonomic reclassification based on DNA evidence is astonishing, and quite frankly impossible for the lay person and professional mycologist alike to keep up with. While we can and should applaud this progress, it points to the idea that maybe we should start our classification approaches from the DNA from the get-go, and not try and fix our classifications using DNA after the fact.

If we accept that we should be using DNA to classify and identify organisms, the question becomes how. We could compare entire genomes, but I don't like this idea because of the complexity of multiple sequence alignment. Using khmers is already a commonly used approach and has worked well in practice through the use of multiple software libraries (list some). However, these libraries all use the exclusivity of rare kmers to identify species, which I don't like at all, because our knowledge of the exclusivity of kmers is severely limited by the fact that we've yet to sequence many many orders of magnitude more species than we've sequenced thus far, and I'm assuming that our understanding of kmer uniqueness will change significantly over time. My favorite approach is the idea of using shorter kmers that we know will be shared across organisms, but utilizing their relative frequencies to identify them. This approach has already been utilized to great success by our colleagues in human linguistics who study collections of literature and books. If we utilize small kmers, it is also reasonable to expect that kmers of length, 7, 11, 13, or 17 may contain more than enough information, when paired with frequency information, to uniquely classify any species or sequence. It would be possible to identify organisms on the fly by comparing the kmer profiles of sequences against reference database catalogs and finding the closest profile